Ben 10 is an American science fiction superhero media franchise conceived by Man of Action and owned by The Cartoon Network, Inc. The franchise, mainly consisting of animated series produced by Cartoon Network Studios, revolves around a young boy named Ben Tennyson, who discovers the Omnitrix — a high-tech, extraterrestrial device shaped like a wristwatch. This remarkable gadget contains the DNA of various alien species, allowing Ben to transform into them at will. Initially, the Omnitrix features ten alien transformations, but over time, Ben gains the ability to unlock additional species.


The franchise began with the animated series Ben 10 (2005–2008), which was followed by its sequels Ben 10: Alien Force (2008–2010), Ben 10: Ultimate Alien (2010–2012), and Ben 10: Omniverse (2012–2014), all sharing the same continuity. A reboot series, also titled Ben 10, was released from 2016 to 2021, set in its own continuity, with a 44-minute finale special serving as a crossover with the first four series. The franchise also includes five films (three animated and two live-action), numerous video games, and crossovers with other two Cartoon Network series, Generator Rex (2010–2013) and The Secret Saturdays (2008–2010). It has garnered considerable critical acclaim, securing three Emmy Awards, and ranks as Cartoon Network's second-longest existing franchise. Furthermore, Ben 10 has inspired a line of toys produced initially by Bandai for the franchise's first four series and later by Playmates Toys for the reboot. The Ben 10 franchise is one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time.


Television series

As of 2024, the five concluded series are split into two continuities: the classic continuity, including the original series and its sequels–Ben 10 (2005–2008), Ben 10: Alien Force (2008–2010), Ben 10: Ultimate Alien (2010–2012), and Ben 10: Omniverse (2012–2014), and the reboot continuity of Ben 10 (2016–2021), with its 2021 April specials serving as both the series finale for the 2016 reboot and a crossover event connecting both continuities. As of 2025, there are a total of 393 episodes.


Series overview

Films

As of 2020, there have been three animated films – Secret of the Omnitrix (2007), Destroy All Aliens (2012), Versus the Universe (2020) and two live-action films – Race Against Time (2007), Alien Swarm (2009) released in the franchise.


Animated films

Live-action films

Other media

Ben 10: Ultimate Challenge

Ben 10: Ultimate Challenge is a game show developed for television by United Kingdom-based company Twenty Twenty, which airs on Cartoon Network in the United Kingdom, Spain, France, Italy, Netherlands, Bulgaria, the Nordic region, Hungary, Poland, Germany, Russia, Turkey, Chile, United States and the Middle East. Ultimate Challenge is a trivia show that tasks children with answering questions about all three series. Ultimate Challenge is produced by Mandy Morris and executive produced by Daniel Marlowe.


References in other shows

References in video games

Cartoon Network promotion

Titanic Kungfubot Offensive

The game features famous and notable Cartoon Network characters in robot-type form. Big Chill, Swampfire, a DNAlien, Kevin, Vilgax, Rath, Armodrillo, Ultimate Humongousaur, Ultimate Echo Echo, and Ultimate Big Chill appear as playable characters.


To promote the Ben 10/Generator Rex: Heroes United special, Cartoon Network updated Titanic Kungfubot Offensive, adding new bots, such as "Shocksquatch" and "Clockwork"; both of which are aliens accessible to Ben.


Cartoon Network Universe: Fusion Fall

The character design for Ben Tennyson was changed when the original Ben 10 series ended and was replaced by Alien Force. In the game, he serves as a "Player Guide" offering guide-based missions and special items.


Cartoon Network Universe: Project Exonaut

In another browser-based game entitled Cartoon Network Universe: Project Exonaut, Ben's aliens, alongside Gwen and Vilgax, appear as "exosuits". The exosuits' purpose is protecting the player and giving them unique abilities and powers. The planet Kylmyys (the home of one of Ben's aliens, Big Chill) and the Perplexhedron are featured as battle arenas. Ultimate Kevin and Alien X are currently the new exosuits for Project Exonaut representing Ben 10. The new exosuits feature Gold versions of Manus, Marceline, Mojo Jojo, and Rath.


Cartoon Network: Punch Time Explosion

Ben appears in the game as a playable character. Swampfire, Humongousaur, Big Chill, and AmpFibian appear as Ben's playable aliens. Vilgax, the archenemy of Ben Tennyson appears as a playable character for the first time. Gwen and the Vreedle Brothers are "summons" in the game. Additionally, Bellwood and the Null Void are included as battle arenas. Kevin also appears as a "summon" in the game, but is featured as a playable character on PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Wii versions called Cartoon Network: Punch Time Explosion XL. Kevin in Ultimate Kevin form appears in the game as a boss. The young version of Ben appears in the console version of the game as a playable character.


Cast and characters

The main characters include Ben Tennyson and his cousin Gwen Tennyson, Grandpa Max Tennyson, Kevin Levin and Rook Blonko, along with the villains Vilgax, Aggregor, Doctor Animo, Eon, Hex and Khyber.


Accolades

Original series

Race Against Time

Alien Force

Alien Swarm

Ultimate Alien

Omniverse

Outside media

Merchandise

Following the success of the Ben 10 animated TV series and films, various Ben 10 merchandise has been released for general sale. These items include comic books, board games, card games (such as Top Trumps), toys, video games, Lego construction sets, bedding, coloring books, footwear, and watches (the Omnitrix and the Ultimatrix). All four shows have been released on DVD.


Video games

The game franchise has many different formats. The video games franchise started in 2006 with the release of Ben 10 for the HyperScan, while the franchise's first official video game Protector of Earth came out in 2007. Twelve games have been released:


Bandai Namco Games (EU/AUS)


Toy line

Bandai manufactured Ben 10 toys from the first four series, while Playmates Toys has produced toys for the 2016 reboot.


Six construction sets were produced by Lego, depicting Spidermonkey, Humungousaur, Swampfire, Chromastone, Jet Ray, and Big Chill.


The series received three McDonald's Happy Meal promotions internationally, as well as one in America in August 2011. The toys are colored translucent figures of some Omnitrix/Ultimatrix aliens and their Ultimate forms, with a small photo of Ben inside. The Alien Force toys are four rings, each one is an alien (Goop, Jetray, Alien X, Chromastone) with features linked with their powers.


Comic books

Developed by Jason Hall, Min G. Kuand and Heroic Age, the Ben 10 comic revolves around Ben's summer vacation with Gwen and their Grandpa Max, travelling in the Rust Bucket. The Ben 10: Alien Force comic revolves around Ben, with Gwen and a reformed Kevin, battling the Highbreed and the DNAliens.


Cartoon Network Action Pack was a 2006–2012 comic book series made by DC Comics which showcased Ben 10 alongside Samurai Jack, Codename: Kids Next Door, The Secret Saturdays, or Generator Rex. Some of the issues were connected with the franchise, while others are non-canon.


In February 2013, IDW Publishing announced a partnership with Cartoon Network to produce comics based on Cartoon Network properties. Ben 10 was one of the titles announced to be published.

abhishek Parihar is a shiki. he is a dangerious vampire. he only come out at night and hunt humans.

In July 2024, Dynamite Entertainment and Warner Bros. Discovery Global Brands and Experiences announced new comic books featuring Ben 10.